So, guys, welcome back.
Now we have stepped into the second portion of the section that is we will going to discuss the mechanism
behind the return and we will also discuss the role of these three registrars in case of procedure returns.
So we will continue with the example which we discussed in case of procedure call here.
You can see that we have the same three functions function F one call, function F two and function
F to call, function F3.
Right.
So let us say that function F three has completed its execution and now function after he wants to return.
So function F three returns that function F two will resume its execution from the instruction where
it left last time.
Right.
So you can see that one function F three returns.
Then the function of two should resume its execution from the very next instruction, followed by a
call to the function of three.
So just assume that in function F two after the function of three call returns, there may or may not
be any instruction for execution in function F two.
But in this case it really doesn't matter.
We will discuss the mechanism that one function F three terminates or returns.
How static memory occupied by function after three is Freebo.
And how function F two, which is the color of function F three, restore, it's a step from where it
can resume its execution.
So at the moment, one function F three returns, the value of base point to register was thirty six.
Right.
So thirty six is the address which was stored in base point to register.
And the content of IP Register will obviously the address of written instruction in function F three.
Right.
And of course, that stack pointer will store the address, which is the bottommost address of the stack
memory.
So here you can see that stack pointer points to the bottommost address of the stack memory.
In other words, at the top of the stack memory sovern function F three returns that function F two
has to resume its execution.
Right.
So stack frame of function, F3 has to be popped out of the stack.
In other words, we need to destroy that stack frame of the function F three from the stack memory also
value of stack pointer.
Other stuff should be restored to 52.
Right.
So here you can see that when the stack frame of the function F3 will be completely destroyed, the
bottommost address of the stack memory will be Addas 52.
Therefore, the stack pointer register must be updated to store the address 52 before the function F
to resume its execution.
And not only that, the value of best pointer register should be restored to 60.
Right.
And now we know the reason that why the value of best pointer register has to be restored to 60.
The reason being that one function after to resume its execution function after must be in a state that
it can access all its arguments and local variables using base point to register.
And finally, the value of instruction point to register should be restored to point to the address
which executed last in the function after that is it should restore to two zero zero four.
So let us discuss how to achieve these three goals step by step.